---
layout: post
title: "How to write a useful htmlwidgets in R: tips and walk-through a real example"
tags: [rstats, r, shiny]
date: 2016-11-22 00:00:01 
categories: blog
comments: true
show-share: true
---

I just want to try to post page by using following thing

## Table of contents

- [Background](#background)
- [Starting point for this "tutorial"](#starting-point)
- [Tip 1: Use sensible parameter name in `renderValue(x)` instead of `x`](#rendervalue-x-name)
- [Tip 2: Add custom HTML to the widget](#custom-html)
- [Tip 3: Convert a data frame to a D3-compatible data structure in R](#dataframeToD3)
- [Tip 4: The `renderValue()` function gets called every time the R binding function gets called](#rendervalue-multiple-times)
- [Tip 5: Make sure any one-time initialization code gets run only once](#init-once)
- [Tip 6: Find out if the widget is in a shiny app or not with `HTMLWidgets.shinyMode`](#shinyMode)
- [Tip 7a: Pass data from the widget to R](#widget-to-r-data)
  - [Tip 7b: Use a custom function to convert the JavaScript data into an R object](#javascript-to-r-handler)
- [Tip 8: Add API functions to lets users programmatically interact with the widget](#api)
  - [Tip 8a: Basic implementation](#api-basic)
  - [Tip 8b: Abstracting the code to make it easier to add new API functions](#api-abstract)
  - [Tip 8c: Support chaining API functions with pipes (`%>%`)](#api-chain)
  - [Tip 8d: Make API functions work outside of Shiny too](#api-not-just-shiny)

## Background {#background}

For those who don't know, [`htmlwidgets`](http://www.htmlwidgets.org/) is a handy package that lets you bring functionality from 3rd-party JavaScript libraries into R. This can be especially useful when wanting to use new types of visualizations in Shiny apps. 

Last year, when asked a question about htmlwidgets, [my response](https://github.com/timelyportfolio/sweetalertR/issues/1#issuecomment-123564079) was that *"I'm a bit embarrassed to admit that I haven't actually looked into htmlwidgets yet"*. Almost a year later, in useR 2016 conference, I had a chat with [Ramnath Vaidyanathan](https://github.com/ramnathv). And, again, I had to embarrassingly admit that I still don't really know how htmlwidgets works, but this time I had the added impact of saying it directly to one of the package's co-authors. In that moment I decided that it's time for me to learn htmlwigets.

So a few weeks later I set out to write my first htmlwidget. Even though it was meant to be purely a learning exercise, I wanted it to at least be minimally useful so that it's not a waste of time. I started looking at a ton of JavaScript visualization libraries and checked each one to see if it already exists in R. This was a harder task than I imagined, but I eventually deicded to turn the [vis.js Timeline module](http://visjs.org/docs/timeline/) into an R htmlwidgets, and hence my newest package [timevis](https://github.com/daattali/timevis) was born.

I'm not going to cover the basics of how to write htmlwidgets (if you just want to learn how to write htmlwidgets, the [official documentation](http://www.htmlwidgets.org/develop_intro.html) is great). What this post will do is describe some things that I implemented in timevis that go beyond the basics and that I think can be applied to many htmlwidgets in order to make them much more useful. To help make these ideas more concrete, I created a minimal barebones htmlwidget that we will improve upon throughout this post.

I would like to repeat and stress that I'm very new to htmlwidgets myself so it's entirely possible that people smarter than myself would disagree with some of my ideas. But I still think it's useful to go through this list I made and see if any of my lessons make sense in your case.

## Starting point for this "tutorial" {#starting-point}
