---
layout: post
title: "BANA9085: Reading Assignment 1"
tags: [Finance, Seminar, Bankruptcy]
date: August 25, 2016 
categories: blog
comments: true
show-share: true
---

## Table of contents

- [## Shumway's paper](#shumway)
- [## Campbell's paper](#campbell)
- [## Ideas](#ideas)

## 1. Shumway, T. (2001), “Forecasting Bankruptcy More Accurately: A Simple Hazard Model”, Journal of Business, 74, 101–124. {#shumway}

1. *What is the main contribution of the paper? What are the proposed model, statistics, and results?*
  
    The main contribution of this paper includes three aspect. First, he proposed a generally consistant and unbiased hazard model based on the original cox proportional hazard model to forcast bankruptcy probability. Althrough, this simply hazard model is actually an application of cox proportional hazard model, which is created by Sir David Cox, Shumay was the first researcher using hazard model for bankruptcy prediction. Second, whereas static models neglect the varing of risk through different time periods, using the hazard model can appropriately solve the problem of static models by explicitly accounting for time. Third, Shumay's hazard model considered the effect of market variables include market size, past stock returns and idiosyncratic standard deviation of stock returns. 
    
    The proposed model is an application of hazard model. It's defined as following: 
    
    $$\phi(t, x; \theta)=\frac{f(t, x; \theta)}{S(t, x; \theta)}$$
    
    where $S(t, x; \theta)=1 - \sum_{j<t}f(j, x; \theta)$
    
    The results: Shumway's Hazard model has a high forecast accuracy. Three-quaters of bankruptcy firms are forecasted in the highest decile. After adding market variables, bankruptcy forecasts is dramastically improved. 95% of bankruptcy firms are forecasted above the probability median. Meanwhile, comparison between market-driven and accounting and market-driven models show the advantage of using market drivers including market size, past stock return and idiosyncratic standard deviation of stock return. 
    
    More: 3rd contribution is better prediction resutl. 4th contribution is Some previous significant variables are not significant. 
    
2. *What is the possible weakness (if any) of the paper? What could be future research based on the paper?*
    
    The possible weaknesses of the paper, in my opinion, include two aspects. First, this simple hazard model generally account for time different of companies when accounting ratio were used, but didn't consider the different duration before filing bankruptcy or delist for some reasons in the model with market drivers. In other words, different duration or sample size for whichever company weren't included into the model with market drivers. Second, statistical inference for hazard model need to be adjusted due to the sample size of test statistics is not the number of firm years in the data. 
    
    **Therefore, further statistical inference need to be created based on this specified hazard model. From the above, accounting market drivers and age simultaneously could be a future research based on Shumway's study. Adjustment of statistics for hazard model may be another future research.** 

3. *Conduct a quick literature search and summarize recent advances in research on this topic.*
    
    Recent studies: 
    
    - Duffie, D., Saita, L., & Wang, K. (2007). Multi-period corporate default prediction with stochastic covariates. Journal of Financial Economics, 83(3), 635-665.
    
    - Bharath, S. T., & Shumway, T. (2008). Forecasting default with the Merton distance to default model. Review of Financial Studies, 21(3), 1339-1369.
    
    - Campbell, J. Y., Hilscher, J., & Szilagyi, J. (2008). In search of distress risk. The Journal of Finance, 63(6), 2899-2939.
    
    - Jessen, C., & Lando, D. (2015). Robustness of distance-to-default. Journal of Banking & Finance, 50, 493-505.
    
    - Hackbarth, D., Haselmann, R., & Schoenherr, D. (2015). Financial distress, stock returns, and the 1978 Bankruptcy Reform Act. Review of Financial Studies, hhv009.
    
    **Summary:**
    
    - There are many advances on this topic. Duffie et al. (2007) studied on the multi-period default forecasting depends on a firm's distance to default(DD). Shumway et al. (2008) examined Merton's distance to default(DD) model and found the naive predictor performs better than Merton DD model. Jessen and David showed good accuracy of DD model may come from its strong robustness to model misspecifications. They proposed a volatility adjustment of the DD measure to improve the prediction. Another potential topic is related to the reform effect. Hackbarth et al. (2015) studied on this topic and found firms with lower firm-level shareholder bargaining power tend to have stronger reform effect. 

## 2. Campbell, J., Hilscher, J., and Szilagyi, J. (2008), "In Search of Distress Risk", Journal of Finance, 63, 2899–2939. {#campbell}

1. *What is the main contribution of the paper? What are the proposed model, statistics, and results?*
    
    The main contribution of study of Campbell et al. may be that they found the evidence of positive relationship between low average return and high failure risk. Unlike previous studies, which typically only use bankruptcy cases, they look at more broad cases including three situations, bankruptcies, financially driven delistings, or D("default") rating issued by leading credit rating agency. They argured the reason to do that is the broader definition of failure allow practitioners to predict and avoid potential bankruptcy or similar risk issue before these issues really happen. Since the good performance of Shumway's(2001) study, they followed the procedure of Shumway, then obtained similar coefficients based on bankruptcy through 1998 and 2003.
    
    More:
    
    1. Decile table to check bankruptcy probability. 
    
2. *What is the possible weakness (if any) of the paper? What could be future research based on the paper?*
    
    There are two possible weaknesses in this study. First, defination of failure in this study include three situations, which are more reasonable process in the context of this study. However, predicting three outcome by using same model is definately not a good way yet. For instance, the reasons for bankruptcy and for financially driven delisting must be totally different. And the patterns could be found from the data may be different as well. On the other hand, including "Default" rating issued by leading credit rating agency as "failure" is kinda like another phenomenon of lemming effect. Figuring out the real connections from data is more straightfoward than using prediction that may be biased. Besides, unlike Duffie, Saita and Wang (2007) used auto-regression time series model for macroeconomic and firm-specific drivers, which can predict time-varing marginal probability of failure, Campbell et al.(2008) just directly estimate failure probabilities without time-series adjustment. 
    
    **Future research include applying discrete hazard model into the context of failure. In other words, apply LASSO or other variable selection techniques to this broader defination. But manipulating data so that delisting and "Default rating" are included is a time-consuming work. Besides that, because in this paper, authors also discussed the arbitrage strategy for failure, this may be a potential future research. But this may lead to other directions, such as arbitrage strategy or study of loss given default.**  
     
3. *Conduct a quick literature search and summarize recent advances in research on this topic.*

    Recent studies:
    
    - Chava, S., & Jarrow, R. A. (2004). Bankruptcy prediction with industry effects. Review of Finance, 8(4), 537-569.
    
    - Andreas Charitou, Dionysia Dionysiou, Neophytos Lambertides, Lenos Trigeorgis, Alternative bankruptcy prediction models using option-pricing theory, Journal of Banking & Finance, Volume 37, Issue 7, July 2013, Pages 2329-2341, ISSN 0378-4266
    
    - Marc Arnold, Alexander F. Wagner, Ramona Westermann, Growth options, macroeconomic conditions, and the cross section of credit risk, Journal of Financial Economics, Volume 107, Issue 2, February 2013, Pages 350-385, ISSN 0304-405X
    
    - Peimin Chen, Chunchi Wu, Default prediction with dynamic sectoral and macroeconomic frailties, Journal of Banking & Finance, Volume 40, March 2014, Pages 211-226, ISSN 0378-4266, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jbankfin.2013.11.036.
    
    Summary:
    
    Chava (2004) used monthly data to predict bankruptcy with industry effects. Recent advances include several studies. First is the study of Andreas et al., which use option pricing theory for bankruptcy prediction. Second is the study of Marc et al., which is related to the prediction of default risk accounting for macroeconomic risk. Third is a study using frailty model. 
    
## 3. Other Ideas and questions {#ideas}

1. Asset pricing model includes bankruptcy risk premium. 
    
    **Revise CAPM or Fama-French model so that default risk is also included.** From the point of Fama and French(1996) that higher distress risk correlate with higher expected return, the investors require a positive return premium for holding stocks with high default risks. However, example of 10 portfolios shows opposite result, higher default risks corresponding to lower annualized average excess return. If assume market have the wisdom to realize these risk companies, this resutls make sense. And meanwhile, this can explain why the price variable is the most important driver in the discrete hazard model with LASSO. So, an intuitive idea is **try to include the default risk factor to extract premium from alpha of Fama-French model**. This could be part of asset pricing theory. 
    
2. Add SMB and HML to the discrete hazard model with LASSO to check whether SMB and HML are also highly impacted factors. These two are market variables and maybe they can be used to show the value stock or small cap.

3. So we didn't cover the discrete-time transfermation models with different transformation parameter c, do we?

4. the discrete-time model didn't account LASSO variable selection, right?

5. Double check decile-table by year. 

